---
layout: post
title: Global Game Jam 2016
comments: true
author: Eric Dupertuis
tags:
- programming
- hackaton
- games
---

##A first Global Game Jam

So for me this year started pretty well. I registered for the 2016 Global Game Jam, my first game jam ever.

Just to put things in perspective : I never made a video game (excepet for some old RPG Maker projects when I was 14) and neither did my team mates. We came in with a pretty weird team : Two graphic designers, a sys-admin, a biologist, a robotics engineer and a web-dev (me). None of us ever made game graphics, wrote game engines or even made music for a video game but screw this, we wanted to do this for the challenge.

This year's theme was "Ritual !" which is a really, really open theme. You can do whatever you like with this. We started brainstorming while waiting for the rest of the team to show up and we came with a few possible ideas but they were two ideas that we really felt was possible for us : Either create a visual novel (using RenPy) or create some sort of card game that would be playable in the browser.

We went with the second option and started working in three groups.

- One group was working on the game graphics and pictures
- Another group was working on the game mechanic
- My group was responsible for coding all of that

We wanted a game that could run in the browser so we choose the only logical language for that : Javascript. And we needed some help to make something clean so we picked Phaser.io as our game engine because well... we needed one. We also thought that the card game could have multiple version like a paper version or an online version using WebSockets but that will probably come later, after the jam if we've got time.

The first evening (and early morning) went pretty good for our group, we went with the pair-programming approach and we implemented one feature at a time, one commit at a time. I was not convinced by the idea at first, but pair programming is kinda fun and you really solve problems faster.

At 3:30 in the morning we pretty much had a fully functional skeleton of our application and decided to go to sleep. Round 1 over.
